# KhipuDataThe Inka Empire (alternatively Inca) was an advanced civilization stretching across the Andes mountains from around 1400 to 1532 AD. One interesting difference between the Inka and other advanced civilizations in history is that the Inka lacked a written language. Instead, they stored data on knotted strings grouped together into devices called khipu (alternatively quipu). Khipu were used throughout the Inka empire as well as in the subsequent Spanish colonial period and even into the early twentieth century. In fact, khipu usage in was contemporaneous with early archaeological efforts to decipher the record keeping devices including Locke’s seminal book The Ancient Quipu Or Peruvian Knot Record, which established the notion that khipu store numbers using a decimal encoding system (Locke 1923). 
In more recent years, khipu research has shifted from an investigation of khipu mechanics to a process of rigorous documentation. One endeavor to document khipu in a searchable database was the Harvard Khipu Database also known as the KDB (Urton 2005).  Unfortunately, the permanent link provided in the notes of Urton no longer reaches the database it once housed, and it appears that the site itself is not currently being hosted. However, research efforts to establish a complete database of known khipu data continue. The Open Khipu Repository serves as a continuation of the KDB. Additionally, for the past five years, an independent researcher and adjunct professor at the University of Alaska – Fairbanks named Ashok Kholsa has assembled a thorough and rigorous khipu database. This includes all the data previously available on the KDB as well as other academic journal publications and unpublished spreadsheets sourced from other prominent researchers in the field. Kholsa details his process for data aggregation in great detail on his website The Khipu Field Guide. 
While this data exists regarding the khipu, research in the past two decades has not focused on analyzing that data. Instead, it has emphasized parsing historical records kept by Spanish conquerors to contextualize the purpose for which khipu were used. Some scholars have also found initial success in discerning the meaning of specific khipu attributes and practices by identifying overlapping information across multiple documents. The difficulty with this approach is that it relies entirely on relationships between documents which can be difficult to discover. Though this approach is productive, there is a gap in existing research for data analysis to be performed.

